docs/get-started/arduino.md, before:

```eval_rst
.. include:: /header.rst 
:github_url: |github_link_base|/get-started/arduino.md
```

# Arduino

The [LVGL library](https://github.com/lvgl/lvgl) is directly available as Arduino libraries.

Note that you need to choose a board powerful enough to run LVGL and your GUI.  See the [requirements of LVGL](https://docs.lvgl.io/master/intro/index.html#requirements). 

For example ESP32 is a good candidate to create UI's with LVGL.

## Get the LVGL Arduino library

LVGL can be installed via the Arduino IDE Library Manager or as a .ZIP library.

You can [Download](https://github.com/lvgl/lvgl/archive/refs/heads/master.zip) the latest version of LVGL from GitHub and simply copy it to Arduino's library folder. 

## Set up drivers

To get started it's recommended to use [TFT_eSPI](https://github.com/Bodmer/TFT_eSPI) library as a TFT driver to simplify testing. 
To make it work, setup `TFT_eSPI` according to your TFT display type via editing either
- `User_Setup.h` 
- or by selecting a configuration in the `User_Setup_Select.h`

Both files are located in `TFT_eSPI` library's folder.

## Configure LVGL

LVGL has its own configuration file called `lv_conf.h`. When LVGL is installed, follow these configuration steps:
1. Go to the directory of the installed Arduino libraries
2. Go to `lvgl` and copy `lv_conf_template.h` as `lv_conf.h` into the Arduino Libraries directory next to the `lvgl` library folder.
3. Open `lv_conf.h` and change the first `#if 0` to `#if 1` to enable the content of the file
4. Set the color depth of you display in `LV_COLOR_DEPTH`
5. Set `LV_TICK_CUSTOM 1`

## Initialize and run LVGL

Take a look at [LVGL_Arduino.ino](https://github.com/lvgl/lvgl/blob/master/examples/arduino/LVGL_Arduino/LVGL_Arduino.ino) to see how to initialize LVGL.
`TFT_eSPI` is used as the display driver.

In the INO file you can see how to register a display and a touchpad for LVGL and call an example.

## Use the examples and demos

Note that, there is no dedicated INO file for every example. Instead, you can load an example by calling an `lv_example_...` function. For example `lv_example_btn_1()`.

**IMPORTANT**
Due to some the limitations of Arduino's build system you need to copy `lvgl/examples` to `lvgl/src/examples`. Similarly for the demos `lvgl/demos` to `lvgl/src/demos`.

## Debugging and logging

LVGL can display debug information in case of trouble. 
In the `LVGL_Arduino.ino` example there is a `my_print` method, which sends this debug information to the serial interface. 
To enable this feature you have to edit the `lv_conf.h` file and enable logging in the section `log settings`:

```c
/*Log settings*/
#define USE_LV_LOG      1   /*Enable/disable the log module*/
#if LV_USE_LOG
/* How important log should be added:
 * LV_LOG_LEVEL_TRACE       A lot of logs to give detailed information
 * LV_LOG_LEVEL_INFO        Log important events
 * LV_LOG_LEVEL_WARN        Log if something unwanted happened but didn't cause a problem
 * LV_LOG_LEVEL_ERROR       Only critical issue, when the system may fail
 * LV_LOG_LEVEL_NONE        Do not log anything
 */
#  define LV_LOG_LEVEL    LV_LOG_LEVEL_WARN
```

After enabling the log module and setting LV_LOG_LEVEL accordingly, the output log is sent to the `Serial` port @ 115200 bps.

Commit message:

chore(docs): describe the directory layout for Arduino

docs/get-started/arduino.md, after:

```eval_rst
.. include:: /header.rst 
:github_url: |github_link_base|/get-started/arduino.md
```

# Arduino

The [LVGL library](https://github.com/lvgl/lvgl) is directly available as Arduino libraries.

Note that you need to choose a board powerful enough to run LVGL and your GUI.  See the [requirements of LVGL](https://docs.lvgl.io/master/intro/index.html#requirements). 

For example ESP32 is a good candidate to create UI's with LVGL.

## Get the LVGL Arduino library

LVGL can be installed via the Arduino IDE Library Manager or as a .ZIP library.

You can [Download](https://github.com/lvgl/lvgl/archive/refs/heads/master.zip) the latest version of LVGL from GitHub and simply copy it to Arduino's library folder. 

## Set up drivers

To get started it's recommended to use [TFT_eSPI](https://github.com/Bodmer/TFT_eSPI) library as a TFT driver to simplify testing. 
To make it work, setup `TFT_eSPI` according to your TFT display type via editing either
- `User_Setup.h` 
- or by selecting a configuration in the `User_Setup_Select.h`

Both files are located in `TFT_eSPI` library's folder.

## Configure LVGL

LVGL has its own configuration file called `lv_conf.h`. When LVGL is installed, follow these configuration steps:
1. Go to the directory of the installed Arduino libraries
2. Go to `lvgl` and copy `lv_conf_template.h` as `lv_conf.h` into the Arduino Libraries directory next to the `lvgl` library folder.
3. Open `lv_conf.h` and change the first `#if 0` to `#if 1` to enable the content of the file
4. Set the color depth of you display in `LV_COLOR_DEPTH`
5. Set `LV_TICK_CUSTOM 1`

Finally the layout with `lv_conf.h` should look like this:
```
arduino
 |-libraries
   |-lvgl
   |-other_lib_1
   |-other_lib_2
   |-lv_conf.h
```

## Initialize and run LVGL

Take a look at [LVGL_Arduino.ino](https://github.com/lvgl/lvgl/blob/master/examples/arduino/LVGL_Arduino/LVGL_Arduino.ino) to see how to initialize LVGL.
`TFT_eSPI` is used as the display driver.

In the INO file you can see how to register a display and a touchpad for LVGL and call an example.

## Use the examples and demos

Note that, there is no dedicated INO file for every example. Instead, you can load an example by calling an `lv_example_...` function. For example `lv_example_btn_1()`.

**IMPORTANT**
Due to some the limitations of Arduino's build system you need to copy `lvgl/examples` to `lvgl/src/examples`. Similarly for the demos `lvgl/demos` to `lvgl/src/demos`.

## Debugging and logging

LVGL can display debug information in case of trouble. 
In the `LVGL_Arduino.ino` example there is a `my_print` method, which sends this debug information to the serial interface. 
To enable this feature you have to edit the `lv_conf.h` file and enable logging in the section `log settings`:

```c
/*Log settings*/
#define USE_LV_LOG      1   /*Enable/disable the log module*/
#if LV_USE_LOG
/* How important log should be added:
 * LV_LOG_LEVEL_TRACE       A lot of logs to give detailed information
 * LV_LOG_LEVEL_INFO        Log important events
 * LV_LOG_LEVEL_WARN        Log if something unwanted happened but didn't cause a problem
 * LV_LOG_LEVEL_ERROR       Only critical issue, when the system may fail
 * LV_LOG_LEVEL_NONE        Do not log anything
 */
#  define LV_LOG_LEVEL    LV_LOG_LEVEL_WARN
```

After enabling the log module and setting LV_LOG_LEVEL accordingly, the output log is sent to the `Serial` port @ 115200 bps.
