docs/get-started/index.md, before:

```eval_rst
.. include:: /header.rst 
:github_url: |github_link_base|/get-started/index.md
```
# Get started

## Where to look first?

There are several ways to get your feet wet with LVGL. Here is one recommended order of documents to read and things to play with when you are learning to use LVGL:
1. Check the [Online demos](https://lvgl.io/demos) to see LVGL in action (3 minutes)
2. Read the [Introduction](https://docs.lvgl.io/latest/en/html/intro/index.html) page of the documentation (5 minutes)
3. Read the [Quick overview](https://docs.lvgl.io/latest/en/html/get-started/quick-overview.html) page of the documentation (15 minutes)
4. Set up a [Simulator](https://docs.lvgl.io/latest/en/html/get-started/pc-simulator.html) (10 minutes)
5. Try out some [Examples](https://github.com/lvgl/lv_examples/)
6. Port LVGL to a board. See the [Porting](https://docs.lvgl.io/latest/en/html/porting/index.html) guide or check the ready to use [Projects](https://github.com/lvgl?q=lv_port_&type=&language=)
7. Read the [Overview](https://docs.lvgl.io/latest/en/html/overview/index.html) page to get a better understanding of the library. (2-3 hours)
8. Check the documentation of the [Widgets](https://docs.lvgl.io/latest/en/html/widgets/index.html) to see their features and usage
9. If you have questions got to the [Forum](http://forum.lvgl.io/)
10. Read the [Contributing](https://docs.lvgl.io/latest/en/html/contributing/index.html) guide to see how you can help to improve LVGL (15 minutes) 


## Platform-specific tutorials
```eval_rst

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   quick-overview
   pc-simulator
   stm32
   nxp
   espressif
   arduino
   micropython
   nuttx
   cmake
```

Commit message:

docs(get-started) add introduction for Tasmota and Berry  (#2874)
* Tasmota introduction

* Update docs/get-started/index.md

Co-authored-by: Gabor Kiss-Vamosi <kisvegabor@gmail.com>

* Update docs/get-started/index.md

* Update docs/get-started/index.md

* Update docs/get-started/index.md

* change link

* improve tutorial list

Co-authored-by: Gabor Kiss-Vamosi <kisvegabor@gmail.com>

docs/get-started/index.md, after:

```eval_rst
.. include:: /header.rst 
:github_url: |github_link_base|/get-started/index.md
```
# Get started

## Where to look first?

There are several ways to get your feet wet with LVGL. Here is one recommended order of documents to read and things to play with when you are learning to use LVGL:
1. Check the [Online demos](https://lvgl.io/demos) to see LVGL in action (3 minutes)
2. Read the [Introduction](https://docs.lvgl.io/latest/en/html/intro/index.html) page of the documentation (5 minutes)
3. Read the [Quick overview](https://docs.lvgl.io/latest/en/html/get-started/quick-overview.html) page of the documentation (15 minutes)
4. Set up a [Simulator](https://docs.lvgl.io/latest/en/html/get-started/pc-simulator.html) (10 minutes)
5. Try out some [Examples](https://github.com/lvgl/lv_examples/)
6. Check out the [Platform-specific tutorials](https://docs.lvgl.io/master/get-started/index.html#platform-specific-tutorials). (10 minutes) 
7. Port LVGL to a board. See the [Porting](https://docs.lvgl.io/latest/en/html/porting/index.html) guide or check the ready to use [Projects](https://github.com/lvgl?q=lv_port_&type=&language=)
8. Read the [Overview](https://docs.lvgl.io/latest/en/html/overview/index.html) page to get a better understanding of the library. (2-3 hours)
9. Check the documentation of the [Widgets](https://docs.lvgl.io/latest/en/html/widgets/index.html) to see their features and usage
10. If you have questions got to the [Forum](http://forum.lvgl.io/)
11. Read the [Contributing](https://docs.lvgl.io/latest/en/html/contributing/index.html) guide to see how you can help to improve LVGL (15 minutes) 


## Platform-specific tutorials

- [Simulator](/get-started/pc-simulator)
- [NXP](/get-started/nxp)
- [Espressif (ESP32)](/get-started/espressif)
- [Arduino](/get-started/arduino)
- [Tasmota-Berry](/get-started/tasmota-berry)
- [Micropython](/get-started/micropython)
- [NuttX RTOS](/get-started/nuttx)
- [CMake](/get-started/cmake)


```eval_rst

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :hidden:

   quick-overview
   pc-simulator
   stm32
   nxp
   espressif
   arduino
   micropython
   tasmota-berry
   nuttx
   cmake
```
