docs/overview/coords.md, before:

```eval_rst
.. include:: /header.rst 
:github_url: |github_link_base|/overview/coords.md
```
# Positions, sizes, and layouts

## Overview
Similarly to many other parts of LVGL, the concept of setting the coordinates were inspired by CSS. It doesn't mean a perfect copy of the standard but parts that are reasonable were adopted in LVGL.
It shorts it means:
- the set coordinates (size, position, layouts, etc) are stored in styles
- support min-width, max-width, min-height, max-height
- have pixel, percentage, and "content" units 
- a subset of flexbox and grid layouts are supported by default 
 
###  Units
- pixel: Simply a position in pixels. A simple integer always mean pixel. E.g. `lv_obj_set_x(btn, 10)`
- percentage: The percentage of the size of the object or its parent (depending on the property). The `lv_pct(value)` converts a value to percentage. E.g. `lv_obj_set_width(btn, lv_pct(50))`
- `LV_SIZE_CONTENT`: Special value to set the width/height of an object to involve all the children. Its similar to `auto` in CSS. E.g. `lv_obj_set_width(btn, LV_SIZE_CONTENT)`.

### Boxing model
An object's "box" is built from the following parts:
- bounding box: the width/height of the elements.
- padding: space between the sides of the object and its children. 
- content: the content area which size if the bounding box reduced by the size of the paddings.

![The box models of LVGL: The content area is smaller then the bounding box with the padding](/misc/boxmodel.png)

The border is drawn inside the bounding box and doesn't take an extra space. (It's different from CSS in which increasing the border width makes the object larger.)

The outline is drawn outside of the bounding box.

### Important notes
This section describes special cases in which LVGL's behavior might look unexpected.

#### Postponed coordinate calculation
LVGL doesn't recalculate all the coordinate changes immediately to improve performance. 
Instead, the objects are marked as "dirty" and before redrawing the screen LVGL checks if there are any "dirty" objects. If so it refreshes their position, size and layout.

The following functions set size/position immediately:
- `lv_obj_set_pos/x/y`
- `lv_obj_set_size/width/height`
- `lv_obj_set_content_width/height`
- `lv_obj_align` 
- `lv_obj_set_align` 
- `lv_obj_align_to` 

So if you don't use any complex feature (e.g. layouts) you don't have to worry about postponed layout recalculation. 

However, if the coordinates are set by a style or layout the recalculation will be delayed.

In some special cases even if the coordinates are set the by the above listed functions they can be incorrect. 
For example if the width of an object is set in the percentage of parent width (e.g. `lv_pct(80)`) and the parent's size is set by a layout the child size might use non-updated size from the parent. 
It will be recalculated automatically before the next screen redraw but if you need the final coordinates immediately after changing the coordinates and see incorrect values you need to use
```c
lv_obj_unpdate_layout(obj);
``` 

As the it can be seen form the above example the sizes and positions might depends on each other, therefore `lv_obj_unpdate_layout(obj)` recalculates the coordinates of all objects on the screen of `obj`.

#### Removing styles
As it's described in the [Using styles](#using-styles) section the coordinates can be set via style properties too. 
To be more precise under the hood every style coordinate related property is stored as style a property. If you use `lv_obj_set_x(obj, 20)` LVGL saves `x=20` in the local style of the object.

It's an internal mechanism and doesn't matter much as you use LVGL. However, there is one case in which you need to aware of that. If the style(s) of an object are removed by 
```c
lv_obj_remove_style_all(obj)
˙``
or
```c
lv_obj_remove_style(obj, NULL, LV_PART_MAIN);
```
The earlier set coordinates will be removed as well.

For example:
```c
/*The size of obj1 will be set back to the default in the end*/
lv_obj_set_size(obj1, 200, 100);  /*Now obj1 has 200;100 size*/
lv_obj_remove_style_all(obj1);    /*It removes the set sizes*/


/*obj2 will have 200;100 size in the end */
lv_obj_remove_style_all(obj2);
lv_obj_set_size(obj2, 200, 100);
```

## Position

### Simple way
To simple set the x and y coordinates of an object use 
```c
lv_obj_set_x(obj, 10);
lv_obj_set_y(obj, 20);
lv_obj_set_pos(obj, 10, 20); 	//Or in one function
```

By default the the x and y coordinates are measured from the top left corner of the parent's content area. 
For example if the parent has 5 pixel padding on every side, the above code will place `obj` to (15, 25) because the content area starts after the padding.

If percentage values are calculated from the parents content area size. 
```c
lv_obj_set_x(btn, lv_pct(10)); //x = 10 % of parant content area width
```

### Align
In some cases it's convenient to change the origin of the positioning from the the default top left. If the origin is changed e.g. to bottom-right, the (0,0) position means: align to the bottom-right corner. 
To change the origin use:
```c
lv_obj_set_align(obj, align);
``` 

To change the alignment and set new coordinates:
```c
lv_obj_align(obj, align, x, y);
```

The following alignment options can be used:
- `LV_ALIGN_TOP_LEFT`
- `LV_ALIGN_TOP_MID`
- `LV_ALIGN_TOP_RIGHT`
- `LV_ALIGN_BOTTOM_LEFT`
- `LV_ALIGN_BOTTOM_MID`
- `LV_ALIGN_BOTTOM_RIGHT`
- `LV_ALIGN_LEFT_MID`
- `LV_ALIGN_RIGHT_MID`
- `LV_ALIGN_CENTER`

It quite common to align a children to the center of its parent, there fore is a dedicated function for it:
```c
lv_obj_center(obj);

//Has the same effect
lv_obj_align(obj, LV_ALIGN_CENTER, 0, 0);
```

If the parent's size changes the set alignment and position of the children is applied again automatically.

The functions introduced above aligns the object to its parent. However it's also possible to align an object to an arbitrary object.
```c
lv_obj_align_to(obj_to_align, reference_obj, align, x, y);
```

Besides the alignments options above the following can be used to align the object outside of the reference object:

- `LV_ALIGN_OUT_TOP_LEFT`
- `LV_ALIGN_OUT_TOP_MID`
- `LV_ALIGN_OUT_TOP_RIGHT`
- `LV_ALIGN_OUT_BOTTOM_LEFT`
- `LV_ALIGN_OUT_BOTTOM_MID`
- `LV_ALIGN_OUT_BOTTOM_RIGHT`
- `LV_ALIGN_OUT_LEFT_TOP`
- `LV_ALIGN_OUT_LEFT_MID`
- `LV_ALIGN_OUT_LEFT_BOTTOM`
- `LV_ALIGN_OUT_RIGHT_TOP`
- `LV_ALIGN_OUT_RIGHT_MID`
- `LV_ALIGN_OUT_RIGHT_BOTTOM`

For example to align a label above a button and center the label is horizontally:
```c
lv_obj_align_to(label, btn, LV_ALIGN_OUT_TOP_MID, 0, -10);
```

Not that - unlike with `lv_obj_align()` - `lv_obj_align_to()` can not realign the object if its coordinates or the reference object's coordinates changes. 

## Size

### Simple way
The width and the height of an object can be set easily as well:
```c
lv_obj_set_width(obj, 200);
lv_obj_set_height(obj, 100);
lv_obj_set_size(obj, 200, 100); 	//Or in one function
```

Percentage values are calculated based on the parent's content area size. For example to set the object's height to the screen height:
```c
lv_obj_set_height(obj, lv_pct(100));
``` 

Size setting supports a value: `LV_SIZE_CONTENT`. It means the object's size in the respective direction will be set to involve its the children. 
Note that only children on the right and bottom will be considered and children on the top and left remains cropped. This limitation makes the behavior more predictable.

Object with `LV_OBJ_FLAG_HIDDEN` or `LV_OBJ_FLAG_FLOATING` will be ignored by `LV_SIZE_CONTENT` calculation.

The above functions set the size of the bounding box of the object but the size of the content area can be set as well. It means the object's bounding box will be larger with the paddings than the set size. 
```c
lv_obj_set_content_width(obj, 50); //The actual width: padding left + 50 + padding right
lv_obj_set_content_height(obj, 30); //The actual width: padding top + 30 + padding bottom
```

The size of the bounding box and the content area can be get with the following functions:
```c
lv_coord_t w = lv_obj_get_width(obj);
lv_coord_t h = lv_obj_get_height(obj);
lv_coord_t content_w = lv_obj_get_content_width(obj);
lv_coord_t content_h = lv_obj_get_content_height(obj);
```

## Using styles
Under the hood the position, size and alignment properties are style properties. 
The above described "simple functions" hide the style related code for the sake of simplicity and set the position, size, and alignment properties in the local styles of the obejct.

However, using styles as to set the coordinates has some great advantages:
- It makes easy to set the width/height/etc for several object together with ease. E.g. all make all the sliders 100x10 pixels sized. 
- It also makes possible to modify the values in one place.
- The values can be overwritten by other styles. For example `style_btn` makes the object `100x50` by default but adding `style_full_width` overwrites only the width of the object.
- The object can have different position or size in different state. E.g. 100 px wide in `LV_STATE_DEFAULT` but 120 px in `LV_STATE_PRESSED`.
- Style transitions can be used to make the coordinate changes smooth. 


Here are some examples to set an object's size using a style:
```c
static lv_style_t style;
lv_style_init(&style);
lv_style_set_width(&style, 100);

lv_obj_t * btn = lv_btn_create(lv_scr_act());
lv_obj_add_style(btn, &style, LV_PART_MAIN);
```

As you will see below there are some other great features of size and position setting. 
However, to keep the LVGL's API lean only the most common coordinate setting features have a "simple" version and the more complex features can be used via styles. 

## Translation

Let's say the there are 3 buttons next to each other. Their position is set as described above. 
Now you want to move a buttons up a little when it's pressed. 

One way to achieve this is setting a new Y coordinate for pressed state:
```c
static lv_style_t style_normal;
lv_style_init(&style_normal);
lv_style_set_y(&style_normal, 100);

static lv_style_t style_pressed;
lv_style_init(&style_pressed);
lv_style_set_y(&style_pressed, 80);

lv_obj_add_style(btn1, &style_normal, LV_STATE_DEFAULT);
lv_obj_add_style(btn1, &style_pressed, LV_STATE_PRESSED);

lv_obj_add_style(btn2, &style_normal, LV_STATE_DEFAULT);
lv_obj_add_style(btn2, &style_pressed, LV_STATE_PRESSED);

lv_obj_add_style(btn3, &style_normal, LV_STATE_DEFAULT);
lv_obj_add_style(btn3, &style_pressed, LV_STATE_PRESSED);
```

It works but it's not really flexible because the pressed coordinate is hard-coded. If the buttons are not at y=100 `style_pressed` won't work as expected. To solve this translations can be used:
```c
static lv_style_t style_normal;
lv_style_init(&style_normal);
lv_style_set_y(&style_normal, 100);

static lv_style_t style_pressed;
lv_style_init(&style_pressed);
lv_style_set_translate_y(&style_pressed, -20);

lv_obj_add_style(btn1, &style_normal, LV_STATE_DEFAULT);
lv_obj_add_style(btn1, &style_pressed, LV_STATE_PRESSED);

lv_obj_add_style(btn2, &style_normal, LV_STATE_DEFAULT);
lv_obj_add_style(btn2, &style_pressed, LV_STATE_PRESSED);

lv_obj_add_style(btn3, &style_normal, LV_STATE_DEFAULT);
lv_obj_add_style(btn3, &style_pressed, LV_STATE_PRESSED);
```

Translation is applied from the current position of the object. 

Percentage values can be used in translations as well. The percentage is relative to the size of the object (and not to the size of the parent). For example `lv_pct(50)` will move the object with half of its width/height.

The translations is applied after the layouts are calculated. Therefore, even the layouted objects' position can be translated.

The translation actually moves the object. It means it makes the scrollbars and `LV_SIZE_CONTENT` sized objects react on the position change.


## Transformation
Similarly to the position the size can be changed relative to the current size as well. 
The transformed width and height is added on both sides of the object. That is 10 px transformed width makes the object 2x10 pixel wider.

Unlike position translation, the size transformation doesn't make the object "really" larger. In other words scrollbars, layouts, `LV_SIZE_CONTENT` will not consider the transformed size. 
Hence size transformation if "only" a visual effect. 

This code makes the a button larger when it's pressed:
```c
static lv_style_t style_pressed;
lv_style_init(&style_pressed);
lv_style_set_transform_width(&style_pressed, 10);
lv_style_set_transform_height(&style_pressed, 10);

lv_obj_add_style(btn, &style_pressed, LV_STATE_PRESSED);
```

### Min and Max size
Similarly to CSS, LVGL also support `min-width`, `max-width`, `min-height` and `max-height`. These are limits preventing an object's size to be smaller/larger then these values. 
They are especially useful if the size is set by percentage or `LV_SIZE_CONTENT`.
```c
static lv_style_t style_max_height;
lv_style_init(&style_max_height);
lv_style_set_y(&style_max_height, 200);

lv_obj_set_height(obj, lv_pct(100));
lv_obj_add_style(obj, &style_max_height, LV_STATE_DEFAULT); //Limit the  height to 200 px
```

Percentage values can be used as well which are relative to the size of the parent's content area size.
```c
static lv_style_t style_max_height;
lv_style_init(&style_max_height);
lv_style_set_y(&style_max_height, lv_pct(50));

lv_obj_set_height(obj, lv_pct(100));
lv_obj_add_style(obj, &style_max_height, LV_STATE_DEFAULT); //Limit the height to half parent height
```

## Layout

### Overview
Layouts can update the position and size of an object's children. They can be used to automatically arrange the children into a line or column, or in much more complicated forms. 

The position and size set by the layout overwrites the "normal" x, y, width, and height settings. 

There is only one function that is the same for every layout: `lv_obj_set_layout(obj, <LAYOUT_NAME>)` sets the layout on an object.  
For the further settings of the parent and children see the documentations of the given layout.

### Built-in layout
LVGL comes with two very powerful layouts:
- Flexbox
- Grid

Both are heavily inspired by the CSS layouts with the same name.

### Flags
There are some flags that can be used on object to affect how they behave with layouts:
- `LV_OBJ_FLAG_HIDDEN` Hidden object are ignored from layout calculations.
- `LV_OBJ_FLAG_IGNORE_LAYOUT` The object is simply ignored by the layouts. Its coordinates can be set as usual.
- `LV_OBJ_FLAG_FLOATING` Same as `LV_OBJ_FLAG_IGNORE_LAYOUT` but the object with `LV_OBJ_FLAG_FLOATING` will be ignored from `LV_SIZE_CONTENT` calculations.

These flags can be added/removed with `lv_obj_add/clear_flag(obj, FLAG);`

### Adding new layouts

LVGL can be freely extended by a custom layouts like this:
```c
uint32_t MY_LAYOUT;

...

MY_LAYOUT = lv_layout_register(my_layout_update, &user_data);

...

void my_layout_update(lv_obj_t * obj, void * user_data)
{
	/*Will be called automatically if required to reposition/resize the children of "obj" */	
}
```

Custom style properties can be added too that can be get and used in the update callback. For example:
```c
uint32_t MY_PROP;
...

LV_STYLE_MY_PROP = lv_style_register_prop();

...
static inline void lv_style_set_my_prop(lv_style_t * style, uint32_t value)
{
    lv_style_value_t v = {
        .num = (int32_t)value
    };
    lv_style_set_prop(style, LV_STYLE_MY_PROP, v);
}

```

## Examples

Commit message:

docs(coords) update the box model

docs/overview/coords.md, after:

```eval_rst
.. include:: /header.rst 
:github_url: |github_link_base|/overview/coords.md
```
# Positions, sizes, and layouts

## Overview
Similarly to many other parts of LVGL, the concept of setting the coordinates were inspired by CSS. It doesn't mean a perfect copy of the standard but subsets of CSS were implemented (sometimes with minor adjustments).
It shorts it means:
- the set coordinates (size, position, layouts, etc) are stored in styles
- support min-width, max-width, min-height, max-height
- have pixel, percentage, and "content" units 
- x=0; y=0 coordinate means the to top-left corner of the parent plus the left/top padding plus border width
- width/height means the full size, the "content area" is smaller with padding and border width 
- a subset of flexbox and grid layouts are supported
 
###  Units
- pixel: Simply a position in pixels. A simple integer always mean pixel. E.g. `lv_obj_set_x(btn, 10)`
- percentage: The percentage of the size of the object or its parent (depending on the property). The `lv_pct(value)` converts a value to percentage. E.g. `lv_obj_set_width(btn, lv_pct(50))`
- `LV_SIZE_CONTENT`: Special value to set the width/height of an object to involve all the children. Its similar to `auto` in CSS. E.g. `lv_obj_set_width(btn, LV_SIZE_CONTENT)`.

### Boxing model
LVGL follows CSS's [border-box](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/box-sizing) model.
An object's "box" is built from the following parts:
- bounding box: the width/height of the elements.
- border width: the width of the border. 
- padding: space between the sides of the object and its children. 
- content: the content area which size if the bounding box reduced by the border width and the size of the paddings.

![The box models of LVGL: The content area is smaller then the bounding box with the padding and border width](/misc/boxmodel.png)

The border is drawn inside the bounding box. Inside the border LVGL keeps "padding size" to place the children. 

The outline is drawn outside of the bounding box.

### Important notes
This section describes special cases in which LVGL's behavior might look unexpected.

#### Postponed coordinate calculation
LVGL doesn't recalculate all the coordinate changes immediately to improve performance. 
Instead, the objects are marked as "dirty" and before redrawing the screen LVGL checks if there are any "dirty" objects. If so it refreshes their position, size and layout.

In other words, if you need to get the any coordinate of an object and it the coordinates were just changed LVGL's needs to be forced to recalculate to coordinates. 
To do this call `lv_obj_update_layout(obj)`the size and position might depends on the parent or layout `lv_obj_update_layout` recalculates the coordinates of all objects on the screen of `obj`.

#### Removing styles
As it's described in the [Using styles](#using-styles) section the coordinates can be set via style properties too. 
To be more precise under the hood every style coordinate related property is stored as style a property. If you use `lv_obj_set_x(obj, 20)` LVGL saves `x=20` in the local style of the object.

It's an internal mechanism and doesn't matter much as you use LVGL. However, there is one case in which you need to aware of that. If the style(s) of an object are removed by 
```c
lv_obj_remove_style_all(obj)
˙``
or
```c
lv_obj_remove_style(obj, NULL, LV_PART_MAIN);
```
The earlier set coordinates will be removed as well.

For example:
```c
/*The size of obj1 will be set back to the default in the end*/
lv_obj_set_size(obj1, 200, 100);  /*Now obj1 has 200;100 size*/
lv_obj_remove_style_all(obj1);    /*It removes the set sizes*/


/*obj2 will have 200;100 size in the end */
lv_obj_remove_style_all(obj2);
lv_obj_set_size(obj2, 200, 100);
```

## Position

### Simple way
To simple set the x and y coordinates of an object use 
```c
lv_obj_set_x(obj, 10);
lv_obj_set_y(obj, 20);
lv_obj_set_pos(obj, 10, 20); 	//Or in one function
```

By default the the x and y coordinates are measured from the top left corner of the parent's content area. 
For example if the parent has 5 pixel padding on every side, the above code will place `obj` to (15, 25) because the content area starts after the padding.

If percentage values are calculated from the parents content area size. 
```c
lv_obj_set_x(btn, lv_pct(10)); //x = 10 % of parant content area width
```

### Align
In some cases it's convenient to change the origin of the positioning from the the default top left. If the origin is changed e.g. to bottom-right, the (0,0) position means: align to the bottom-right corner. 
To change the origin use:
```c
lv_obj_set_align(obj, align);
``` 

To change the alignment and set new coordinates:
```c
lv_obj_align(obj, align, x, y);
```

The following alignment options can be used:
- `LV_ALIGN_TOP_LEFT`
- `LV_ALIGN_TOP_MID`
- `LV_ALIGN_TOP_RIGHT`
- `LV_ALIGN_BOTTOM_LEFT`
- `LV_ALIGN_BOTTOM_MID`
- `LV_ALIGN_BOTTOM_RIGHT`
- `LV_ALIGN_LEFT_MID`
- `LV_ALIGN_RIGHT_MID`
- `LV_ALIGN_CENTER`

It quite common to align a children to the center of its parent, there fore is a dedicated function for it:
```c
lv_obj_center(obj);

//Has the same effect
lv_obj_align(obj, LV_ALIGN_CENTER, 0, 0);
```

If the parent's size changes the set alignment and position of the children is applied again automatically.

The functions introduced above aligns the object to its parent. However it's also possible to align an object to an arbitrary object.
```c
lv_obj_align_to(obj_to_align, reference_obj, align, x, y);
```

Besides the alignments options above the following can be used to align the object outside of the reference object:

- `LV_ALIGN_OUT_TOP_LEFT`
- `LV_ALIGN_OUT_TOP_MID`
- `LV_ALIGN_OUT_TOP_RIGHT`
- `LV_ALIGN_OUT_BOTTOM_LEFT`
- `LV_ALIGN_OUT_BOTTOM_MID`
- `LV_ALIGN_OUT_BOTTOM_RIGHT`
- `LV_ALIGN_OUT_LEFT_TOP`
- `LV_ALIGN_OUT_LEFT_MID`
- `LV_ALIGN_OUT_LEFT_BOTTOM`
- `LV_ALIGN_OUT_RIGHT_TOP`
- `LV_ALIGN_OUT_RIGHT_MID`
- `LV_ALIGN_OUT_RIGHT_BOTTOM`

For example to align a label above a button and center the label is horizontally:
```c
lv_obj_align_to(label, btn, LV_ALIGN_OUT_TOP_MID, 0, -10);
```

Not that - unlike with `lv_obj_align()` - `lv_obj_align_to()` can not realign the object if its coordinates or the reference object's coordinates changes. 

## Size

### Simple way
The width and the height of an object can be set easily as well:
```c
lv_obj_set_width(obj, 200);
lv_obj_set_height(obj, 100);
lv_obj_set_size(obj, 200, 100); 	//Or in one function
```

Percentage values are calculated based on the parent's content area size. For example to set the object's height to the screen height:
```c
lv_obj_set_height(obj, lv_pct(100));
``` 

Size setting supports a value: `LV_SIZE_CONTENT`. It means the object's size in the respective direction will be set to involve its the children. 
Note that only children on the right and bottom will be considered and children on the top and left remains cropped. This limitation makes the behavior more predictable.

Object with `LV_OBJ_FLAG_HIDDEN` or `LV_OBJ_FLAG_FLOATING` will be ignored by `LV_SIZE_CONTENT` calculation.

The above functions set the size of the bounding box of the object but the size of the content area can be set as well. It means the object's bounding box will be larger with the paddings than the set size. 
```c
lv_obj_set_content_width(obj, 50); //The actual width: padding left + 50 + padding right
lv_obj_set_content_height(obj, 30); //The actual width: padding top + 30 + padding bottom
```

The size of the bounding box and the content area can be get with the following functions:
```c
lv_coord_t w = lv_obj_get_width(obj);
lv_coord_t h = lv_obj_get_height(obj);
lv_coord_t content_w = lv_obj_get_content_width(obj);
lv_coord_t content_h = lv_obj_get_content_height(obj);
```

## Using styles
Under the hood the position, size and alignment properties are style properties. 
The above described "simple functions" hide the style related code for the sake of simplicity and set the position, size, and alignment properties in the local styles of the obejct.

However, using styles as to set the coordinates has some great advantages:
- It makes easy to set the width/height/etc for several object together with ease. E.g. all make all the sliders 100x10 pixels sized. 
- It also makes possible to modify the values in one place.
- The values can be overwritten by other styles. For example `style_btn` makes the object `100x50` by default but adding `style_full_width` overwrites only the width of the object.
- The object can have different position or size in different state. E.g. 100 px wide in `LV_STATE_DEFAULT` but 120 px in `LV_STATE_PRESSED`.
- Style transitions can be used to make the coordinate changes smooth. 


Here are some examples to set an object's size using a style:
```c
static lv_style_t style;
lv_style_init(&style);
lv_style_set_width(&style, 100);

lv_obj_t * btn = lv_btn_create(lv_scr_act());
lv_obj_add_style(btn, &style, LV_PART_MAIN);
```

As you will see below there are some other great features of size and position setting. 
However, to keep the LVGL's API lean only the most common coordinate setting features have a "simple" version and the more complex features can be used via styles. 

## Translation

Let's say the there are 3 buttons next to each other. Their position is set as described above. 
Now you want to move a buttons up a little when it's pressed. 

One way to achieve this is setting a new Y coordinate for pressed state:
```c
static lv_style_t style_normal;
lv_style_init(&style_normal);
lv_style_set_y(&style_normal, 100);

static lv_style_t style_pressed;
lv_style_init(&style_pressed);
lv_style_set_y(&style_pressed, 80);

lv_obj_add_style(btn1, &style_normal, LV_STATE_DEFAULT);
lv_obj_add_style(btn1, &style_pressed, LV_STATE_PRESSED);

lv_obj_add_style(btn2, &style_normal, LV_STATE_DEFAULT);
lv_obj_add_style(btn2, &style_pressed, LV_STATE_PRESSED);

lv_obj_add_style(btn3, &style_normal, LV_STATE_DEFAULT);
lv_obj_add_style(btn3, &style_pressed, LV_STATE_PRESSED);
```

It works but it's not really flexible because the pressed coordinate is hard-coded. If the buttons are not at y=100 `style_pressed` won't work as expected. To solve this translations can be used:
```c
static lv_style_t style_normal;
lv_style_init(&style_normal);
lv_style_set_y(&style_normal, 100);

static lv_style_t style_pressed;
lv_style_init(&style_pressed);
lv_style_set_translate_y(&style_pressed, -20);

lv_obj_add_style(btn1, &style_normal, LV_STATE_DEFAULT);
lv_obj_add_style(btn1, &style_pressed, LV_STATE_PRESSED);

lv_obj_add_style(btn2, &style_normal, LV_STATE_DEFAULT);
lv_obj_add_style(btn2, &style_pressed, LV_STATE_PRESSED);

lv_obj_add_style(btn3, &style_normal, LV_STATE_DEFAULT);
lv_obj_add_style(btn3, &style_pressed, LV_STATE_PRESSED);
```

Translation is applied from the current position of the object. 

Percentage values can be used in translations as well. The percentage is relative to the size of the object (and not to the size of the parent). For example `lv_pct(50)` will move the object with half of its width/height.

The translations is applied after the layouts are calculated. Therefore, even the layouted objects' position can be translated.

The translation actually moves the object. It means it makes the scrollbars and `LV_SIZE_CONTENT` sized objects react on the position change.


## Transformation
Similarly to the position the size can be changed relative to the current size as well. 
The transformed width and height is added on both sides of the object. That is 10 px transformed width makes the object 2x10 pixel wider.

Unlike position translation, the size transformation doesn't make the object "really" larger. In other words scrollbars, layouts, `LV_SIZE_CONTENT` will not consider the transformed size. 
Hence size transformation if "only" a visual effect. 

This code makes the a button larger when it's pressed:
```c
static lv_style_t style_pressed;
lv_style_init(&style_pressed);
lv_style_set_transform_width(&style_pressed, 10);
lv_style_set_transform_height(&style_pressed, 10);

lv_obj_add_style(btn, &style_pressed, LV_STATE_PRESSED);
```

### Min and Max size
Similarly to CSS, LVGL also support `min-width`, `max-width`, `min-height` and `max-height`. These are limits preventing an object's size to be smaller/larger then these values. 
They are especially useful if the size is set by percentage or `LV_SIZE_CONTENT`.
```c
static lv_style_t style_max_height;
lv_style_init(&style_max_height);
lv_style_set_y(&style_max_height, 200);

lv_obj_set_height(obj, lv_pct(100));
lv_obj_add_style(obj, &style_max_height, LV_STATE_DEFAULT); //Limit the  height to 200 px
```

Percentage values can be used as well which are relative to the size of the parent's content area size.
```c
static lv_style_t style_max_height;
lv_style_init(&style_max_height);
lv_style_set_y(&style_max_height, lv_pct(50));

lv_obj_set_height(obj, lv_pct(100));
lv_obj_add_style(obj, &style_max_height, LV_STATE_DEFAULT); //Limit the height to half parent height
```

## Layout

### Overview
Layouts can update the position and size of an object's children. They can be used to automatically arrange the children into a line or column, or in much more complicated forms. 

The position and size set by the layout overwrites the "normal" x, y, width, and height settings. 

There is only one function that is the same for every layout: `lv_obj_set_layout(obj, <LAYOUT_NAME>)` sets the layout on an object.  
For the further settings of the parent and children see the documentations of the given layout.

### Built-in layout
LVGL comes with two very powerful layouts:
- Flexbox
- Grid

Both are heavily inspired by the CSS layouts with the same name.

### Flags
There are some flags that can be used on object to affect how they behave with layouts:
- `LV_OBJ_FLAG_HIDDEN` Hidden object are ignored from layout calculations.
- `LV_OBJ_FLAG_IGNORE_LAYOUT` The object is simply ignored by the layouts. Its coordinates can be set as usual.
- `LV_OBJ_FLAG_FLOATING` Same as `LV_OBJ_FLAG_IGNORE_LAYOUT` but the object with `LV_OBJ_FLAG_FLOATING` will be ignored from `LV_SIZE_CONTENT` calculations.

These flags can be added/removed with `lv_obj_add/clear_flag(obj, FLAG);`

### Adding new layouts

LVGL can be freely extended by a custom layouts like this:
```c
uint32_t MY_LAYOUT;

...

MY_LAYOUT = lv_layout_register(my_layout_update, &user_data);

...

void my_layout_update(lv_obj_t * obj, void * user_data)
{
	/*Will be called automatically if required to reposition/resize the children of "obj" */	
}
```

Custom style properties can be added too that can be get and used in the update callback. For example:
```c
uint32_t MY_PROP;
...

LV_STYLE_MY_PROP = lv_style_register_prop();

...
static inline void lv_style_set_my_prop(lv_style_t * style, uint32_t value)
{
    lv_style_value_t v = {
        .num = (int32_t)value
    };
    lv_style_set_prop(style, LV_STYLE_MY_PROP, v);
}

```

## Examples
