docs/overview/layer.md, before:

```eval_rst
.. include:: /header.rst 
:github_url: |github_link_base|/overview/layer.md
```

# Layers

## Order of creation

By default, LVGL draws new objects on top of old objects.

For example, assume we added a button to a parent object named button1 and then another button named button2. Then button1 (with its child object(s)) will be in the background and can be covered by button2 and its children.


![](/misc/layers.png "Creating graphical objects in Littlev Graphics Library")  

```c
/*Create a screen*/
lv_obj_t * scr = lv_obj_create(NULL, NULL);
lv_scr_load(scr);          /*Load the screen*/

/*Create 2 buttons*/
lv_obj_t * btn1 = lv_btn_create(scr, NULL);         /*Create a button on the screen*/
lv_btn_set_fit(btn1, true, true);                   /*Enable to automatically set the size according to the content*/
lv_obj_set_pos(btn1, 60, 40);              	   /*Set the position of the button*/

lv_obj_t * btn2 = lv_btn_create(scr, btn1);         /*Copy the first button*/
lv_obj_set_pos(btn2, 180, 80);                    /*Set the position of the button*/

/*Add labels to the buttons*/
lv_obj_t * label1 = lv_label_create(btn1, NULL);	/*Create a label on the first button*/
lv_label_set_text(label1, "Button 1");          	/*Set the text of the label*/

lv_obj_t * label2 = lv_label_create(btn2, NULL);  	/*Create a label on the second button*/
lv_label_set_text(label2, "Button 2");            	/*Set the text of the label*/

/*Delete the second label*/
lv_obj_del(label2);
```

## Bring to the foreground

There are 4 explicit way to bring an object to the foreground:
- Use `lv_obj_move_foreground(obj)` to explicitly tell the library to bring an object to the foreground. Similarly, use `lv_obj_move_background(obj)` to move to the background.
- Use `lv_obj_move_up(obj)` moves the object one position up in the hierarchy, Similarly, use `lv_obj_move_down(obj)` moves the object one position down in the hierarchy. 
- Use `lv_obj_swap(obj1, obj2)` to swap the relative position of two objects.
- When `lv_obj_set_parent(obj, new_parent)` is used, `obj` will be on the foreground on the `new_parent`.

## Top and sys layers

LVGL uses two special layers named as `layer_top` and `layer_sys`.
Both are visible and common on all screens of a display. **They are not, however, shared among multiple physical displays.** The `layer_top` is always on top of the default screen (`lv_scr_act()`), and `layer_sys` is on top of `layer_top`.

The `layer_top` can be used by the user to create some content visible everywhere. For example, a menu bar, a pop-up, etc. If the `click` attribute is enabled, then `layer_top` will absorb all user click and acts as a modal.
```c
lv_obj_add_flag(lv_layer_top(), LV_OBJ_FLAG_CLICKABLE);
```

The `layer_sys` is also used for similar purposes on LVGL. For example, it places the mouse cursor above all layers to be sure it's always visible.

Commit message:

feat(obj) add lv_obj_move_to_index(obj, index), renamed lv_obj_get_child_id(obj) to lv_obj_get_index(obj) (#2514)
* - renamed lv_obj_get_id(obj) to lv_obj_get_index(obj).

- added lv_obj_move_to_index(obj, index).

* automatic review comment fixed

* removed unused variable

* review issue

* restored deprecated function in header, otherwise Build Micropython with LVGL submodule / build (pull_request)  failes

* moved deprecated lv_obj_get_child_id() back to lv_obj_tree.h, otherwise Micropython will not build

* inline function did not work

* made deprecated function 'static inline'

* and now also inline

* move static inline function to lv_api_map.h again

* removed lv_obj_move_up/down

* changed log to warning for deprecated function

* redefined lv_obj_move_foreground(obj) and lv_obj_move_background(obj) as inline functions now calling lv_obj_move_to_index(obj, index).

- lv_obj_swap(obj1, obj2) added. (#2461)

docs/overview/layer.md, after:

```eval_rst
.. include:: /header.rst 
:github_url: |github_link_base|/overview/layer.md
```

# Layers

## Order of creation

By default, LVGL draws new objects on top of old objects.

For example, assume we added a button to a parent object named button1 and then another button named button2. Then button1 (with its child object(s)) will be in the background and can be covered by button2 and its children.


![](/misc/layers.png "Creating graphical objects in Littlev Graphics Library")  

```c
/*Create a screen*/
lv_obj_t * scr = lv_obj_create(NULL, NULL);
lv_scr_load(scr);          /*Load the screen*/

/*Create 2 buttons*/
lv_obj_t * btn1 = lv_btn_create(scr, NULL);         /*Create a button on the screen*/
lv_btn_set_fit(btn1, true, true);                   /*Enable to automatically set the size according to the content*/
lv_obj_set_pos(btn1, 60, 40);              	   /*Set the position of the button*/

lv_obj_t * btn2 = lv_btn_create(scr, btn1);         /*Copy the first button*/
lv_obj_set_pos(btn2, 180, 80);                    /*Set the position of the button*/

/*Add labels to the buttons*/
lv_obj_t * label1 = lv_label_create(btn1, NULL);	/*Create a label on the first button*/
lv_label_set_text(label1, "Button 1");          	/*Set the text of the label*/

lv_obj_t * label2 = lv_label_create(btn2, NULL);  	/*Create a label on the second button*/
lv_label_set_text(label2, "Button 2");            	/*Set the text of the label*/

/*Delete the second label*/
lv_obj_del(label2);
```

## Bring to the foreground

There are 4 explicit way to bring an object to the foreground:
- Use `lv_obj_move_foreground(obj)` to explicitly tell the library to bring an object to the foreground. Similarly, use `lv_obj_move_background(obj)` to move to the background.
- Use `lv_obj_move_to_index(obj, index)` to set the index of the object in its parent. 
- Use `lv_obj_swap(obj1, obj2)` to swap the relative position of two objects.
- When `lv_obj_set_parent(obj, new_parent)` is used, `obj` will be on the foreground on the `new_parent`.

## Top and sys layers

LVGL uses two special layers named as `layer_top` and `layer_sys`.
Both are visible and common on all screens of a display. **They are not, however, shared among multiple physical displays.** The `layer_top` is always on top of the default screen (`lv_scr_act()`), and `layer_sys` is on top of `layer_top`.

The `layer_top` can be used by the user to create some content visible everywhere. For example, a menu bar, a pop-up, etc. If the `click` attribute is enabled, then `layer_top` will absorb all user click and acts as a modal.
```c
lv_obj_add_flag(lv_layer_top(), LV_OBJ_FLAG_CLICKABLE);
```

The `layer_sys` is also used for similar purposes on LVGL. For example, it places the mouse cursor above all layers to be sure it's always visible.
