.. _editor_best_practices:

=======================
LVGL Pro Best Practices
=======================

These guidelines help keep projects organized, maintainable, and easier to scale when working with the LVGL Pro Editor.

1. Project Naming
=================

Avoid project names that may conflict with libraries or frameworks.

**Do NOT use:**

- ``lvgl``

**Recommended:**

- Use a unique project name specific to your project.

This prevents naming conflicts and keeps the build system clean.


2. Asset Organization
=====================

Use clear and consistent prefixes for generated assets.

**Images**

- ``icon_``
- ``image_``

**Fonts**

Use structured naming to handle different sizes and styles:

- ``font_<name>_<size>``
- ``font_<name>_<size>_<format>``

**Examples:**

- ``font_roboto_14_regular``
- ``font_roboto_16_bold``

This is especially important when managing multiple font sizes and formats such as bold, italic, or medium.


3. Raw Resource Separation
==========================

Keep raw resources separate from generated resources.

**Recommended structure:**

::

   images/
   images/raw/

**Example:**

::

   images/raw/icon_home.png
   images/icon_home.c

For assets with multiple sizes, include the size in the filename:

- ``icon_home_20dp.png``
- ``icon_home_40dp.png``

**Benefits:**

- Generated files remain easy to locate
- Raw assets are not mixed with generated files
- Project structure remains clean and predictable


4. Subject Naming
=================

Use a consistent prefix for subjects.

- ``subject_settings``
- ``subject_home``

This improves readability and ensures naming consistency across the project.


5. Style Naming
===============

Always prefix styles.

**Base styles:**

- ``style_button``
- ``style_container``
- ``style_text``

**Theme variants:**

If multiple themes are used (e.g., dark and light), include a theme prefix:

- ``style_dark_button``
- ``style_light_button``

This approach simplifies theme management and scaling.


6. Screens, Components, and Widgets
===================================

Create screens, components, and widgets using their respective folders.

**Recommended approach:**

Use:

- *Add New → Component*
- *Add New → Widget*
- *Add New → Screen*

This automatically organizes them into subfolders, improving navigation and maintainability.


7. Widget Naming
================

Use a prefix for widgets:

- ``wd_menu``
- ``wd_statusbar``
- ``wd_clock``

This makes widgets easy to identify and avoids naming conflicts.


8. Do Not Edit Generated Files
==============================

Files generated by the editor are overwritten during regeneration.

**Do not modify them directly.**

**Instead:**

- Modify the source XML
- Use styles
- Use components or widgets

Direct edits to generated files will be lost.


9. Avoid Inline Styles in XML
=============================

Minimize the use of inline style attributes.

**Avoid:**

.. code-block:: xml

   <lv_obj style_bg_color="0x000000" style_bg_opa="255" />

**Recommended:**

.. code-block:: xml

   <styles>
      <style name="style_obj" bg_color="0x000000" bg_opa="255" />
   </styles>

   <lv_obj>
      <style name="style_obj" />
   </lv_obj>

**Benefits:**

- Styles are reusable
- XML remains clean and readable
- Easier maintenance and updates


10. Avoid API Properties in Components/Widgets
==============================================

Avoid defining API properties that may conflict with editor-specific behavior.

**Avoid:**

.. code-block:: xml

   <prop name="name" type="text" />

Also avoid unnecessary API overrides:

.. code-block:: xml

   <api>
      <prop name="width" type="int" />
   </api>

   <view width="$width" />

**Recommended:**

Use the ``help`` property to document API usage:

.. code-block:: xml

   <api name="text" type="string" help="Sets the label text of the component" />


11. Avoid Overriding Default Flags or State
===========================================

Avoid overriding default states or flags on the root object unless necessary.

**Avoid:**

.. code-block:: xml

   <component>
      <view checked="true" />
   </component>

**Recommended:**

Set such properties when the component is used within a screen.

This ensures components remain flexible and reusable.


12. Component Sizing Best Practices
===================================

Avoid combining fixed component sizes with fixed child sizes.

**Not recommended:**

.. code-block:: xml

   <view width="content">
      <lv_dropdown width="420" />
   </view>

This prevents proper resizing when the component is reused.

**Recommended:**

.. code-block:: xml

   <view width="420">
      <lv_dropdown width="100%" />
   </view>

**Benefits:**

- Child elements resize automatically
- Components can be reused at different sizes
- Layout behavior remains predictable
