tests/README.md, before:

# Tests for LVGL

The tests in the folder can be run locally and automatically by GitHub CI.

## Running locally

### Requirements (Linux)
1. Be sure GCC and Python3 is installed.
2. Install [gcovr](https://gcovr.com/en/stable/index.html) with `pip install gcovr`
3. Install Ruby with `sudo apt-get install ruby-full`

### Run test
1. Enter `lvgl/tests/`
2. Run the tests with `./main.py [OPTIONS]`. The options are
  - `report` Create a html page in the `report` folder with the coverage report.
  - `test` Build and run only test. Without this option LVGL will be built with various configurations.
  - `noclean` Do not clean the project before building. Useful while writing test to save some times. 

For example: 
- `./main.py` Run all the test as they run in the CI.
- `./main.py report test noclean` Run only the test, should be sued when writing tests.


## Running automatically
TODO

GitHub's CI automatically runs these tests on pushes and pull requests to `master` and `releasev8.*` branches. 

## Directory structure
- `src` Source files of the tests
    - `test_cases` The written tests,
    - `test_runners` Generated automatically from the files in `test_cases`.
    - other miscellaneous files and folders 
- `ref_imgs` - Reference images for screenshot compare
- `report` - Coverage report. Generated if the `report` flag was passed to `./main.py` 
- `unity` Source files of the test engine

## Add new tests

### Create new test file
New test needs to be added into the `src/test_cases` folder. The name of the files should look like `test_<name>.c`. The the basic skeleton of a test file copy `_test_template.c`.

### Asserts
See the list of asserts [here](https://github.com/ThrowTheSwitch/Unity/blob/master/docs/UnityAssertionsReference.md).

There are some custom, LVGL specific asserts:
- `TEST_ASSERT_EQUAL_SCREENSHOT("image1.png")` Render the active screen and compare its content with an image in the `ref_imgs` folder. 
If the compare fails `lvgl/test_screenshot_error.h` is created with the content of the frame buffer as an image. 
To see the that image `#include "test_screenshot_error.h"` and call `test_screenshot_error_show();`.
- `TEST_ASSERT_EQUAL_COLOR(color1, color2)` Compare two colors.

### Adding new reference images
The reference images can be taken by copy-pasting the test code in to LVGL simulator and saving the screen. 
LVGL needs to
- 800x480 resolution
- 32 bit color depth
- `LV_USE_PERF_MONITOR` and `LV_USE_MEM_MONITOR` disabled
- use the default theme, with the default color (don't set a theme manually)

Commit message:

test convert Makefile to CMake (#2495)
* Convert tests/Makefile to a cmake project file.

This change switches the building of LVGL tests to use cmake
which is more portable than make. Additionally, whenever
cmake can be used, instead of the Python script (`main.py`),
the former is preferred.

The interface to `main.py` is unchanged, and tests are built
and executated the same as before.

This closes https://github.com/lvgl/lvgl/issues/2474.

* Installing `gcovr` in GitHub workflow.

* Documented steps to install libpng-dev.

* Added missing stdout flush when running tests.

* Grammar tweak in README.

Co-authored-by: Gabor Kiss-Vamosi <kisvegabor@gmail.com>

tests/README.md, after:

# Tests for LVGL

The tests in the folder can be run locally and automatically by GitHub CI.

## Running locally

### Requirements (Linux)
1. Be sure GCC and Python3 are installed.
2. Install [cmake](https://cmake.org/) with `sudo apt install cmake`.
3. Install [gcovr](https://gcovr.com/en/stable/index.html) with `sudo apt install gcovr`
4. Install Ruby with `sudo apt install ruby-full`
5. Install libpng development package with `sudo apt install libpng-dev`

### Run test
1. Enter `lvgl/tests/`
2. Run the tests with `./main.py [OPTIONS]`. The options are
  - `report` Create a html page in the `report` folder with the coverage report.
  - `test` Build and run only test. Without this option LVGL will be built with various configurations.
  - `noclean` Do not clean the project before building. Useful while writing test to save some times. 

For example: 
- `./main.py` Run all the test as they run in the CI.
- `./main.py report test noclean` Run only the test, should be used when writing tests.


## Running automatically

GitHub's CI automatically runs these tests on pushes and pull requests to `master` and `releasev8.*` branches. 

## Directory structure
- `src` Source files of the tests
    - `test_cases` The written tests,
    - `test_runners` Generated automatically from the files in `test_cases`.
    - other miscellaneous files and folders 
- `ref_imgs` - Reference images for screenshot compare
- `report` - Coverage report. Generated if the `report` flag was passed to `./main.py` 
- `unity` Source files of the test engine

## Add new tests

### Create new test file
New test needs to be added into the `src/test_cases` folder. The name of the files should look like `test_<name>.c`. The the basic skeleton of a test file copy `_test_template.c`.

### Asserts
See the list of asserts [here](https://github.com/ThrowTheSwitch/Unity/blob/master/docs/UnityAssertionsReference.md).

There are some custom, LVGL specific asserts:
- `TEST_ASSERT_EQUAL_SCREENSHOT("image1.png")` Render the active screen and compare its content with an image in the `ref_imgs` folder. 
If the compare fails `lvgl/test_screenshot_error.h` is created with the content of the frame buffer as an image. 
To see the that image `#include "test_screenshot_error.h"` and call `test_screenshot_error_show();`.
- `TEST_ASSERT_EQUAL_COLOR(color1, color2)` Compare two colors.

### Adding new reference images
The reference images can be taken by copy-pasting the test code in to LVGL simulator and saving the screen. 
LVGL needs to
- 800x480 resolution
- 32 bit color depth
- `LV_USE_PERF_MONITOR` and `LV_USE_MEM_MONITOR` disabled
- use the default theme, with the default color (don't set a theme manually)
