docs/widgets/extra/keyboard.md, before:

```eval_rst
.. include:: /header.rst 
:github_url: |github_link_base|/widgets/keyboard.md
```


# Keyboard (lv_keyboard)

## Overview

The Keyboard object is a special [Button matrix](/widgets/core/btnmatrix) with predefined keymaps and other features to realize a virtual keyboard to write texts into a [Text area](/widgets/core/textarea).

## Parts and Styles
Similarly to Button matrices Keyboards consist of 2 part: 
- `LV_PART_MAIN` The main part. Uses all the typical background properties
- `LV_PART_ITEMS` The buttons. Also uses all typical background properties as well as the *text* properties.

## Usage

### Modes
The Keyboards have the following modes:
- `LV_KEYBOARD_MODE_TEXT_LOWER`  Display lower case letters
- `LV_KEYBOARD_MODE_TEXT_UPPER`  Display upper case letters
- `LV_KEYBOARD_MODE_TEXT_SPECIAL` Display special characters
- `LV_KEYBOARD_MODE_NUMBER` Display numbers, +/- sign, and decimal dot.

The `TEXT` modes' layout contains buttons to change mode.

To set the mode manually, use `lv_keyboard_set_mode(kb, mode)`. The default mode is  `LV_KEYBOARD_MODE_TEXT_UPPER`.

### Assign Text area
You can assign a [Text area](/widgets/core/textarea) to the Keyboard to automatically put the clicked characters there.
To assign the text area, use `lv_keyboard_set_textarea(kb, ta)`.


### New Keymap
You can specify a new map (layout) for the keyboard with `lv_keyboard_set_map(kb, map)` and `lv_keyboard_set_ctrl_map(kb, ctrl_map)`.
Learn more about the [Button matrix](/widgets/core/btnmatrix) object.
Keep in mind that using following keywords will have the same effect as with the original map:  
- `LV_SYMBOL_OK` Apply.
- `LV_SYMBOL_CLOSE` or `LV_SYMBOL_KEYBOARD` Close.
- `LV_SYMBOL_BACKSPACE` Delete on the left.
- `LV_SYMBOL_LEFT` Move the cursor left.
- `LV_SYMBOL_RIGHT` Move the cursor right.
- `LV_SYMBOL_NEW_LINE` New line.
- *"ABC"* Load the uppercase map.
- *"abc"* Load the lower case map.
- *"1#"* Load the lower case map.

## Events
- `LV_EVENT_VALUE_CHANGED` Sent when the button is pressed/released or repeated after long press. The event data is set to the ID of the pressed/released button.
- `LV_EVENT_READY` - The *Ok* button is clicked.
- `LV_EVENT_CANCEL` - The *Close* button is clicked.

The keyboard has a **default event handler** callback called `lv_keyboard_def_event_cb`, which handles the button pressing, map changing, the assigned text area, etc. You can remove it and replace it with a custom event handler if you wish.

```eval_rst
.. note::
   In 8.0 and newer, adding an event handler to the keyboard does not remove the default event handler.
   This behavior differs from v7, where adding an event handler would always replace the previous one.
```


Learn more about [Events](/overview/event).

## Keys
- `LV_KEY_RIGHT/UP/LEFT/RIGHT` To navigate among the buttons and select one.
- `LV_KEY_ENTER` To press/release the selected button.

Learn more about [Keys](/overview/indev).


## Examples


```eval_rst

.. include:: ../../../examples/widgets/keyboard/index.rst

```

## API

```eval_rst

.. doxygenfile:: lv_keyboard.h
  :project: lvgl

```

Commit message:

feat(btnmatrix/keyboard): add option to show popovers on button press
This adds a new option that, when enabled, shows popovers when pressing
buttons, similar to how the system keyboards on Android and iOS behave.

docs/widgets/extra/keyboard.md, after:

```eval_rst
.. include:: /header.rst 
:github_url: |github_link_base|/widgets/keyboard.md
```


# Keyboard (lv_keyboard)

## Overview

The Keyboard object is a special [Button matrix](/widgets/core/btnmatrix) with predefined keymaps and other features to realize a virtual keyboard to write texts into a [Text area](/widgets/core/textarea).

## Parts and Styles
Similarly to Button matrices Keyboards consist of 2 part: 
- `LV_PART_MAIN` The main part. Uses all the typical background properties
- `LV_PART_ITEMS` The buttons. Also uses all typical background properties as well as the *text* properties.

## Usage

### Modes
The Keyboards have the following modes:
- `LV_KEYBOARD_MODE_TEXT_LOWER`  Display lower case letters
- `LV_KEYBOARD_MODE_TEXT_UPPER`  Display upper case letters
- `LV_KEYBOARD_MODE_TEXT_SPECIAL` Display special characters
- `LV_KEYBOARD_MODE_NUMBER` Display numbers, +/- sign, and decimal dot.

The `TEXT` modes' layout contains buttons to change mode.

To set the mode manually, use `lv_keyboard_set_mode(kb, mode)`. The default mode is  `LV_KEYBOARD_MODE_TEXT_UPPER`.

### Assign Text area
You can assign a [Text area](/widgets/core/textarea) to the Keyboard to automatically put the clicked characters there.
To assign the text area, use `lv_keyboard_set_textarea(kb, ta)`.

### Key Popovers
To enable key popovers on press, like on common Android and iOS keyboards, use `lv_keyboard_set_popovers(kb, true)`. The default control maps are preconfigured to only show the popovers on keys that produce a symbol and not on e.g. space. If you use a custom keymap, set the `LV_BTNMATRIX_CTRL_POPOVER` flag for all keys that you want to show a popover.

Note that popovers for keys in the top row will draw outside the widget boundaries. To account for this, reserve extra free space on top of the keyboard or ensure that the keyboard is added _after_ any widgets adjacent to its top boundary so that the popovers can draw over those.

The popovers currently are merely a visual effect and don't allow selecting additional characters such as accents yet.

### New Keymap
You can specify a new map (layout) for the keyboard with `lv_keyboard_set_map(kb, map)` and `lv_keyboard_set_ctrl_map(kb, ctrl_map)`.
Learn more about the [Button matrix](/widgets/core/btnmatrix) object.
Keep in mind that using following keywords will have the same effect as with the original map:  
- `LV_SYMBOL_OK` Apply.
- `LV_SYMBOL_CLOSE` or `LV_SYMBOL_KEYBOARD` Close.
- `LV_SYMBOL_BACKSPACE` Delete on the left.
- `LV_SYMBOL_LEFT` Move the cursor left.
- `LV_SYMBOL_RIGHT` Move the cursor right.
- `LV_SYMBOL_NEW_LINE` New line.
- *"ABC"* Load the uppercase map.
- *"abc"* Load the lower case map.
- *"1#"* Load the lower case map.

## Events
- `LV_EVENT_VALUE_CHANGED` Sent when the button is pressed/released or repeated after long press. The event data is set to the ID of the pressed/released button.
- `LV_EVENT_READY` - The *Ok* button is clicked.
- `LV_EVENT_CANCEL` - The *Close* button is clicked.

The keyboard has a **default event handler** callback called `lv_keyboard_def_event_cb`, which handles the button pressing, map changing, the assigned text area, etc. You can remove it and replace it with a custom event handler if you wish.

```eval_rst
.. note::
   In 8.0 and newer, adding an event handler to the keyboard does not remove the default event handler.
   This behavior differs from v7, where adding an event handler would always replace the previous one.
```


Learn more about [Events](/overview/event).

## Keys
- `LV_KEY_RIGHT/UP/LEFT/RIGHT` To navigate among the buttons and select one.
- `LV_KEY_ENTER` To press/release the selected button.

Learn more about [Keys](/overview/indev).


## Examples


```eval_rst

.. include:: ../../../examples/widgets/keyboard/index.rst

```

## API

```eval_rst

.. doxygenfile:: lv_keyboard.h
  :project: lvgl

```
