docs/widgets/extra/led.md, before:

```eval_rst
.. include:: /header.rst 
:github_url: |github_link_base|/widgets/led.md
```
# LED (lv_led)

## Overview

The LEDs are rectangle-like (or circle) object whose brightness can be adjusted. With lower brightness the colors of the LED become darker.

## Parts and Styles
The LEDs have only one main part, called `LV_LED_PART_MAIN` and it uses all the typical background style properties.

## Usage

### Color
You can set the color of the LED with `lv_led_set_color(led, lv_color_hex(0xff0080))`.
This will be used as background color, border color, and shadow color.

### Brightness
You can set their brightness with `lv_led_set_bright(led, bright)`. The brightness should be between 0 (darkest) and 255 (lightest).

### Toggle
Use `lv_led_on(led)` and `lv_led_off(led)` to set the brightness to a predefined ON or OFF value. The `lv_led_toggle(led)` toggles between the ON and OFF state.

## Events
No special event are sent by the LED object.

Learn more about [Events](/overview/event).

## Keys
No *Keys* are processed by the object type.

Learn more about [Keys](/overview/indev).

## Example

```eval_rst

.. include:: ../../../examples/widgets/led/index.rst

```

## API 

```eval_rst

.. doxygenfile:: lv_led.h
  :project: lvgl
        
```

Commit message:

feat(event, widgets) improve the paramter of LV_EVENT_DRAW_PART_BEGIN/END
Add lv_<widget>_draw_part_type_t to widgets to precisly describe the hooked drawings.
Also add class_p element to lv_obj_draw_part_dsc_t to show what widgets lv_<widget>_draw_part_type_t needs to be used.

Related to: https://forum.lvgl.io/t/how-to-add-minor-division-lines-to-a-chart/5366/

docs/widgets/extra/led.md, after:

```eval_rst
.. include:: /header.rst 
:github_url: |github_link_base|/widgets/led.md
```
# LED (lv_led)

## Overview

The LEDs are rectangle-like (or circle) object whose brightness can be adjusted. With lower brightness the colors of the LED become darker.

## Parts and Styles
The LEDs have only one main part, called `LV_LED_PART_MAIN` and it uses all the typical background style properties.

## Usage

### Color
You can set the color of the LED with `lv_led_set_color(led, lv_color_hex(0xff0080))`.
This will be used as background color, border color, and shadow color.

### Brightness
You can set their brightness with `lv_led_set_bright(led, bright)`. The brightness should be between 0 (darkest) and 255 (lightest).

### Toggle
Use `lv_led_on(led)` and `lv_led_off(led)` to set the brightness to a predefined ON or OFF value. The `lv_led_toggle(led)` toggles between the ON and OFF state.

## Events
- `LV_EVENT_DRAW_PART_BEGIN` and `LV_EVENT_DRAW_PART_END` is sent for the following types:
    - `LV_LED_DRAW_PART_RECTANGLE` The main rectangle. `LV_OBJ_DRAW_PART_RECTANGLE` is not sent by the base object. 
       - `part`: `LV_PART_MAIN`
       - `rect_dsc`
       - `draw_area`: the area of the rectangle
       

See the events of the [Base object](/widgets/obj) too.

Learn more about [Events](/overview/event).

## Keys
No *Keys* are processed by the object type.

Learn more about [Keys](/overview/indev).

## Example

```eval_rst

.. include:: ../../../examples/widgets/led/index.rst

```

## API 

```eval_rst

.. doxygenfile:: lv_led.h
  :project: lvgl
        
```
