============================
ST7735 LCD Controller Driver
============================

Overview
********

The `ST7735S <https://www.buydisplay.com/download/ic/ST7735S.pdf>`__ is a single-chip
controller/driver for 262K-color, graphic type TFT-LCD.  It consists of 396 source
line and 162 gate line driving circuits.  This chip is capable of connecting directly
to an external microprocessor, and accepts Serial Peripheral Interface
(SPI), 8-bit/9-bit/16-bit/18-bit parallel interface.  Display data can be stored in
the on-chip display data RAM of 132 x 162 x 18 bits.  It can perform display data RAM
read/write operation with no external operation clock to minimize power consumption.
In addition, because of the integrated power supply circuits necessary to drive
liquid crystal, it is possible to make a display system with fewer components.

The ST7735 LCD controller
`driver <https://github.com/lvgl/lvgl/tree/master/src/drivers/display/st7735>`__ is a
platform-agnostic driver, based on the :ref:`generic MIPI driver`.  It implements
display initialization, supports display rotation and implements the display flush
callback.  The user needs to implement only two platform-specific functions to send a
command or pixel data to the controller via SPI or parallel bus.  Typically these are
implemented by calling the appropriate SDK library functions on the given platform.



Prerequisites
*************

There are no prerequisites.



Configuring the Driver
**********************

Enable the ST7735 driver support in lv_conf.h, by cmake compiler define or by KConfig:

.. code-block:: c

    #define LV_USE_ST7735  1



Usage
*****

You need to implement two platform-dependent functions:

.. code-block:: c

    /* Send short command to the LCD. This function shall wait until the transaction finishes. */
    void my_lcd_send_cmd(lv_display_t *disp, const uint8_t *cmd, size_t cmd_size, const uint8_t *param, size_t param_size)
    {
        ...
    }

    /* Send large array of pixel data to the LCD. If necessary, this function has to
     * do the byte-swapping. This function can do the transfer in the background. */
    void my_lcd_send_color(lv_display_t *disp, const uint8_t *cmd, size_t cmd_size, uint8_t *param, size_t param_size)
    {
        ...
    }

To create an ST7735-based display use the function

.. code-block:: c

    /**
     * Create an LCD display with ST7735 driver
     * @param hor_res       horizontal resolution
     * @param ver_res       vertical resolution
     * @param flags         default configuration settings (mirror, RGB ordering, etc.)
     * @param send_cmd      platform-dependent function to send a command to the LCD controller (usually uses polling transfer)
     * @param send_color    platform-dependent function to send pixel data to the LCD controller (usually uses DMA transfer: must implement a 'ready' callback)
     * @return              pointer to the created display
     */
    lv_display_t * lv_st7735_create(uint32_t hor_res, uint32_t ver_res, lv_lcd_flag_t flags,
                                    lv_st7735_send_cmd_cb_t send_cmd_cb, lv_st7735_send_color_cb_t send_color_cb);
.. important::

    The :cpp:func:`lv_st7735_create` function does not allocate any draw buffers.

    You must set up your own draw buffers manually (please refer to :ref:`draw_buffers`).
    When no draw buffers are provided, LVGL cannot operate on the display.

    Setting the color format is also recommended (please refer to :ref:`display_color_format`).

.. code-block::c
    /* Example of initializing ST7735 display and its draw buffers */
    uint32_t buf_size = 128 * 160 / 10 * sizeof(lv_color_t);
	lv_color_t *buf1 = malloc(buf_size);
	lv_color_t *buf2 = malloc(buf_size);
	assert(buf1 != NULL && buf2 != NULL);
	lv_display_t *const disp = lv_st7735_create(128, 160, LV_LCD_FLAG_NONE,
			my_lcd_send_cmd, my_lcd_send_color);
	lv_display_set_color_format(disp, LV_COLOR_FORMAT_RGB565_SWAPPED);
	lv_display_set_buffers(disp, buf1, buf2, buf_size,
			LV_DISPLAY_RENDER_MODE_PARTIAL);

For additional details and a working example see the :ref:`generic MIPI driver`
documentation.
