.. _toradex:

=======
Toradex
=======

About toradex
-------------

Toradex specializes in manufacturing high-quality embedded computing solutions 
based on microprocessor units (MPUs). These boards and modules are designed to 
meet the needs of industrial and commercial applications, offering reliability, 
longevity, and scalability. Leveraging industry-standard frameworks like Yocto 
Project, Toradex enables customers to create tailored embedded systems with 
ease, ensuring compatibility and flexibility.

Products portfolio
------------------

Toradex offers a wide range of system-on-modules (SoMs) and carrier boards 
designed for various applications and industries. Here's a basic overview to 
help you navigate the portfolio.


Aquila 
~~~~~~

Aquila is a new System on Module standard expanding the Toradex portfolio to 
new heights, offering unparalleled performance for computationally intensive 
CPU, machine learning, and vision workloads.

To power next-gen’s AI requirements in industrial and other harsh environments, 
Aquila introduces a proven connector: the 400-pin board-to-board connector, 
making the board extra reliable, especially in these environments.

Aquila Computer on Module: 

    - `Aquila iMX95 <https://www.toradex.com/computer-on-modules/
      aquila-arm-family/nxp-imx95>`_
    - `Aquila AM69 <https://www.toradex.com/computer-on-modules/
      aquila-arm-family/ti-am69>`_ 

Aquila Carrier Boards: 

    - `Clover <https://www.toradex.com/products/carrier-board/clover>`_ 
    - `Aquila Development Board <https://www.toradex.com/products/carrier-board/
      aquila-development-board-kit>`_ 
      
Apalis 
~~~~~~ 

Apalis is a scalable System on Module (SoM) / Computer on Module (CoM) family 
that aims to provide high performance in a compact form factor. Apalis enables 
the development of advanced and robust products within a short time and with 
low risks. Apalis modules scale to the highest performance in the Toradex 
product range, and they provide the most interfaces of any product line on the 
314-pin MXM connectors. Apalis modules are suited to a larger number of 
applications in such fields as healthcare, industrial automation, robotics, 
smart cities and many more. Apalis modules are supported by Toradex software 
offerings and the company’s rich ecosystem of other products and services.

Apalis Computer on Module: 

    - `Apalis iMX8 <https://www.toradex.com/computer-on-modules/
      apalis-arm-family/nxp-imx-8>`_ 
    - `Apalis iMX6 <https://www.toradex.com/computer-on-modules/
      apalis-arm-family/nxp-freescale-imx-6>`_ 
    - `Apalis T30 <https://www.toradex.com/computer-on-modules/
      apalis-arm-family/nvidia-tegra-3>`_ 

Apalis Carrier Boards: 

    - `Ixora <https://www.toradex.com/products/carrier-board/
      ixora-carrier-board>`_ 
    - `Apalis Evaluation Board <https://www.toradex.com/products/carrier-board/
      ixora-carrier-board>`_ 

Colibri
~~~~~~~

The Colibri Arm® family consists of SODIMM-sized System on Modules (SoM) / 
Computer on Modules (CoM). The family offers miniaturized modules based on NXP® 
i.MX 8X, i.MX 6ULL, i.MX 7, i.MX 6, Vybrid and NVIDIA® Tegra SoCs. All these 
modules are pin-compatible, ensuring scalability of applications developed on 
them. The Colibri family delivers cost-performance-optimized designs. An 
extensive range of Colibri-compatible carrier boards and accessories, such as 
cameras and displays, is also available for easy product development on the 
Colibri Arm family of modules.


Colibri Computer on Module: 

    - `Colibri iMX8X <https://www.toradex.com/computer-on-modules/
      colibri-arm-family/nxp-imx-8x>`_ 
    - `Colibri T30 <https://www.toradex.com/computer-on-modules/
      colibri-arm-family/nvidia-tegra-3>`_ 
    - `Colibri T20 <https://www.toradex.com/computer-on-modules/
      colibri-arm-family/nvidia-tegra-2>`_ 
    - `Colibri iMX6 <https://www.toradex.com/computer-on-modules/
      colibri-arm-family/nxp-freescale-imx6>`_ 
    - `Colibri iMX7 <https://www.toradex.com/computer-on-modules/
      colibri-arm-family/nxp-freescale-imx7>`_ 
    - `Colibri iMXiMX6ULL8X <https://www.toradex.com/computer-on-modules/
      colibri-arm-family/nxp-imx6ull>`_ 
    - `Colibri VF61 <https://www.toradex.com/computer-on-modules/
      colibri-arm-family/nxp-freescale-vybrid-vf6xx>`_ 
    - `Colibri VF50 <https://www.toradex.com/computer-on-modules/
      colibri-arm-family/nxp-freescale-vybrid-vf5xx>`_ 

Colibri Carrier Boards: 

    - `Colibri Evaluation Board <https://www.toradex.com/products/carrier-board/
      colibri-evaluation-board>`_ 
    - `Iris Carrier Board <https://www.toradex.com/products/carrier-board/
      iris-carrier-board>`_ 
    - `Viola Carrier Board <https://www.toradex.com/products/carrier-board/
      viola-carrier-board>`_ 
    - `Aster Carrier Board <https://www.toradex.com/products/carrier-board/
      aster-carrier-board>`_ 


Verdin 
~~~~~~~

Verdin is a System on Module standard expanding on the successful Colibri and 
Apalis form factors. It provides a revised, modern and capable interface set 
and focuses on ease-of-use, robustness and being future-proof.

Verdin is similar sized to the Colibri but with a higher pin count. A DDR4 
SODIMM edge connector provides a cost-effective, highly reliable, shock- and 
vibration-resistant connection.

Verdin Computer on Module: 

    - `Verdin iMX8M Plus <https://www.toradex.com/computer-on-modules/
      verdin-arm-family/nxp-imx-8m-plus>`_
    - `Verdin iMX8M Mini <https://www.toradex.com/computer-on-modules/
      verdin-arm-family/nxp-imx-8m-mini-nano>`_
    - `Verdin AM62 <https://www.toradex.com/computer-on-modules/
      verdin-arm-family/ti-am62>`_
    - `i.MX 95 Verdin Evaluation Kit <https://www.toradex.com/
      computer-on-modules/verdin-arm-family/nxp-imx95-evaluation-kit>`_
    - `Verdin iMX95 <https://www.toradex.com/computer-on-modules/
      verdin-arm-family/nxp-imx95-evaluation-kit#verdin-imx95>`_

Verdin Carrier Boards: 

    - `Verdin Development Board with HDMI Adapter <https://www.toradex.com/
      products/carrier-board/verdin-development-board-kit>`_
    - `Dahlia Carrier Board with HDMI Adapter <https://www.toradex.com/products/
      carrier-board/dahlia-carrier-board-kit>`_
    - `Yavia <https://www.toradex.com/products/carrier-board/yavia>`_
    - `Mallow Carrier Board <https://www.toradex.com/products/carrier-board/
      mallow-carrier-board>`_
    - `Ivy Carrier Board <https://www.toradex.com/products/carrier-board/
      ivy-carrier-board>`_

TorizonOS 
---------

TorizonOS is a Linux-based operating system developed by Toradex, tailored for 
embedded systems. It is designed to simplify the development, deployment, and 
maintenance of applications, especially in industrial and IoT settings. 
Combining ease of use with powerful features like containerization and 
over-the-air (OTA) updates, TorizonOS helps developers accelerate 
time-to-market while ensuring robust performance and security for embedded 
applications.

A TorizonOS guide to develop an application using LVGL can be found 
:ref:`torizon-os-section`.

More information is provided on the `Torizon documentation <https://www.torizon.
io/torizon-os>`_.

Toradex examples
----------------

There are existing ready to use repositories available. Click `here <https://
github.com/lvgl?q=lv_port_toradex&type=all&language=&sort=>`_ to check them out.

