docs/widgets/core/slider.md, before:

```eval_rst
.. include:: /header.rst 
:github_url: |github_link_base|/widgets/slider.md
```
# Slider (lv_slider)

## Overview

The Slider object looks like a [Bar](/widgets/core/bar) supplemented with a knob. The knob can be dragged to set a value. Just like Bar, Slider can be vertical or horizontal.


## Parts and Styles 
- `LV_PART_MAIN` The background of the slider. Uses all the typical background style properties. `padding` makes the indicator smaller in the respective direction.
- `LV_PART_INDICATOR` The indicator that shows the current state of the slider. Also uses all the typical background style properties.
- `LV_PART_KNOB` A rectangle (or circle) drawn at the current value. Also uses all the typical background properties to describe the knob(s). By default the knob is square (with a optional corner radius) with side length equal to the smaller side of the slider. The knob can be made larger with the `padding` values. Padding values can be asymmetric too. 

## Usage

### Value and range
To set an initial value use `lv_slider_set_value(slider, new_value, LV_ANIM_ON/OFF)`.  The animation time is set by the styles' `anim_time` property.

To specify the range (min, max values), `lv_slider_set_range(slider, min , max)` can be used.

### Modes
The slider can be one the following modes:
- `LV_SLIDER_MODE_NORMAL` A normal slider as described above
- `LV_SLIDER_SYMMETRICAL` Draw the indicator form the zero value to current value. Requires negaitve minimum range and positive maximum range.
- `LV_SLIDER_RANGE` Allows setting the start value too by `lv_bar_set_start_value(bar, new_value, LV_ANIM_ON/OFF)`. The start value has to be always smaller than the end value.

The mode can be changed with `lv_slider_set_mode(slider, LV_SLIDER_MODE_...)`

### Knob-only mode
Normally, the slider can be adjusted either by dragging the knob, or by clicking on the slider bar. 
In the latter case the knob moves to the point clicked and slider value changes accordingly. In some cases it is desirable to set the slider to react on dragging the knob only. This feature is enabled by adding the `LV_OBJ_FLAG_ADV_HITTEST`: `lv_obj_add_flag(slider, LV_OBJ_FLAG_ADV_HITTEST)`.

## Events
- `LV_EVENT_VALUE_CHANGED` Sent while the slider is being dragged or changed with keys. 
The event is sent continuously while the slider is dragged and once when released. Use `lv_slider_is_dragged` to detemine whether the Slider is still being dragged or has just been released.

Learn more about [Events](/overview/event).
## Keys
- `LV_KEY_UP/RIGHT` Increment the slider's value by 1
- `LV_KEY_DOWN/LEFT` Decrement the slider's value by 1

Learn more about [Keys](/overview/indev).

## Example

```eval_rst

.. include:: ../../../examples/widgets/slider/index.rst

```

## API 

```eval_rst

.. doxygenfile:: lv_slider.h
  :project: lvgl
        
```

Commit message:

feat(event, widgets) improve the paramter of LV_EVENT_DRAW_PART_BEGIN/END
Add lv_<widget>_draw_part_type_t to widgets to precisly describe the hooked drawings.
Also add class_p element to lv_obj_draw_part_dsc_t to show what widgets lv_<widget>_draw_part_type_t needs to be used.

Related to: https://forum.lvgl.io/t/how-to-add-minor-division-lines-to-a-chart/5366/

docs/widgets/core/slider.md, after:

```eval_rst
.. include:: /header.rst 
:github_url: |github_link_base|/widgets/slider.md
```
# Slider (lv_slider)

## Overview

The Slider object looks like a [Bar](/widgets/core/bar) supplemented with a knob. The knob can be dragged to set a value. Just like Bar, Slider can be vertical or horizontal.


## Parts and Styles 
- `LV_PART_MAIN` The background of the slider. Uses all the typical background style properties. `padding` makes the indicator smaller in the respective direction.
- `LV_PART_INDICATOR` The indicator that shows the current state of the slider. Also uses all the typical background style properties.
- `LV_PART_KNOB` A rectangle (or circle) drawn at the current value. Also uses all the typical background properties to describe the knob(s). By default the knob is square (with a optional corner radius) with side length equal to the smaller side of the slider. The knob can be made larger with the `padding` values. Padding values can be asymmetric too. 

## Usage

### Value and range
To set an initial value use `lv_slider_set_value(slider, new_value, LV_ANIM_ON/OFF)`.  The animation time is set by the styles' `anim_time` property.

To specify the range (min, max values), `lv_slider_set_range(slider, min , max)` can be used.

### Modes
The slider can be one the following modes:
- `LV_SLIDER_MODE_NORMAL` A normal slider as described above
- `LV_SLIDER_SYMMETRICAL` Draw the indicator form the zero value to current value. Requires negaitve minimum range and positive maximum range.
- `LV_SLIDER_RANGE` Allows setting the start value too by `lv_bar_set_start_value(bar, new_value, LV_ANIM_ON/OFF)`. The start value has to be always smaller than the end value.

The mode can be changed with `lv_slider_set_mode(slider, LV_SLIDER_MODE_...)`

### Knob-only mode
Normally, the slider can be adjusted either by dragging the knob, or by clicking on the slider bar. 
In the latter case the knob moves to the point clicked and slider value changes accordingly. In some cases it is desirable to set the slider to react on dragging the knob only. This feature is enabled by adding the `LV_OBJ_FLAG_ADV_HITTEST`: `lv_obj_add_flag(slider, LV_OBJ_FLAG_ADV_HITTEST)`.

## Events
- `LV_EVENT_VALUE_CHANGED` Sent while the slider is being dragged or changed with keys. 
The event is sent continuously while the slider is dragged and once when released. Use `lv_slider_is_dragged` to detemine whether the Slider is still being dragged or has just been released.
- `LV_EVENT_DRAW_PART_BEGIN` and `LV_EVENT_DRAW_PART_END` are sent for the following parts. 
    - `LV_SLIDER_DRAW_PART_KNOB` The main (right) knob of the slider
        - `part`: `LV_PART_KNOB` 
        - `draw_area`: area of the indicator
        - `rect_dsc`
        - `id`: 0
    - `LV_SLIDER_DRAW_PART_KNOB`  The left knob of the slider
        - `part`: `LV_PART_KNOB` 
        - `draw_area`: area of the indicator
        - `rect_dsc`
        - `id`: 1

See the events of the [Bar](/widgets/core/bar) too.

Learn more about [Events](/overview/event).

## Keys
- `LV_KEY_UP/RIGHT` Increment the slider's value by 1
- `LV_KEY_DOWN/LEFT` Decrement the slider's value by 1

Learn more about [Keys](/overview/indev).

## Example

```eval_rst

.. include:: ../../../examples/widgets/slider/index.rst

```

## API 

```eval_rst

.. doxygenfile:: lv_slider.h
  :project: lvgl
        
```
