docs/libs/ffmpeg.md, before:

```eval_rst
.. include:: /header.rst 
:github_url: |github_link_base|/libs/ffmpeg.md
```

# FFmpeg support
[FFmpeg](https://www.ffmpeg.org/) A complete, cross-platform solution to record, convert and stream audio and video.

## Install FFmpeg
- Download FFmpeg from [here](https://www.ffmpeg.org/download.html)
- `./configure --disable-all --disable-autodetect --disable-podpages --disable-asm --enable-avcodec --enable-avformat --enable-decoders --enable-encoders --enable-demuxers --enable-parsers --enable-protocol='file' --enable-swscale --enable-zlib`
- `make`
- `sudo make install`

## Add FFmpeg to your project
- Add library: `FFmpeg` (for GCC: `-lavformat -lavcodec -lavutil -lswscale -lm -lz -lpthread`)

## Usage

Enable `LV_USE_FFMPEG` in `lv_conf.h`.

See the examples below.

Note that, the FFmpeg extension doesn't use LVGL's file system. 
You can simply pass the path to the font as usual on your operating system or platform.

## API

```eval_rst

.. doxygenfile:: lv_ffmpeg.h
  :project: lvgl

```

Commit message:

fix(ffmpeg): when disabled LV_FFMPEG_AV_DUMP_FORMAT makes av_log quiet (#2838)
* fix(Kconfig) remove duplicate LV_BUILD_EXAMPLES configuration

* feat(refr) add reset of FPS statistics

* fix(ffmpeg) when disabled LV_FFMPEG_AV_DUMP_FORMAT makes av_log quiet

Signed-off-by: _VIFEXTech <1290176185@qq.com>

* docs(ffmpeg) add example code

Co-authored-by: pengyiqiang <pengyiqiang@xiaomi.com>

docs/libs/ffmpeg.md, after:

```eval_rst
.. include:: /header.rst 
:github_url: |github_link_base|/libs/ffmpeg.md
```

# FFmpeg support
[FFmpeg](https://www.ffmpeg.org/) A complete, cross-platform solution to record, convert and stream audio and video.

## Install FFmpeg
- Download FFmpeg from [here](https://www.ffmpeg.org/download.html)
- `./configure --disable-all --disable-autodetect --disable-podpages --disable-asm --enable-avcodec --enable-avformat --enable-decoders --enable-encoders --enable-demuxers --enable-parsers --enable-protocol='file' --enable-swscale --enable-zlib`
- `make`
- `sudo make install`

## Add FFmpeg to your project
- Add library: `FFmpeg` (for GCC: `-lavformat -lavcodec -lavutil -lswscale -lm -lz -lpthread`)

## Usage

Enable `LV_USE_FFMPEG` in `lv_conf.h`.

See the examples below.

Note that, the FFmpeg extension doesn't use LVGL's file system. 
You can simply pass the path to the image or video as usual on your operating system or platform.

## Example
```eval_rst

.. include:: ../../examples/libs/ffmpeg/index.rst

```

## API

```eval_rst

.. doxygenfile:: lv_ffmpeg.h
  :project: lvgl

```
