docs/libs/freetype.md, before:

```eval_rst
.. include:: /header.rst 
:github_url: |github_link_base|/libs/bmp.md
```

# FreeType support
Interface to [FreeType](https://www.freetype.org/) to generate font bitmaps run time.

## Install FreeType
- Download Freetype from [here](https://sourceforge.net/projects/freetype/files/)
- `make`
- `sudo make install`

## Add FreeType to your project
- Add include path: `/usr/include/freetype2` (for GCC: `-I/usr/include/freetype2 -L/usr/local/lib`)
- Add library: `freetype` (for GCC: `-L/usr/local/lib -lfreetype`)

## Usage

Enable `LV_USE_FREETYPE` in `lv_conf.h`.

See the examples below.

Note that, the FreeType extension doesn't use LVGL's file system. 
You can simply pass the path to the font as usual on your operating system or platform.

## Learn more
- FreeType [tutorial](https://www.freetype.org/freetype2/docs/tutorial/step1.html) 
- LVGL's [font interface](https://docs.lvgl.io/v7/en/html/overview/font.html#add-a-new-font-engine)


## API

```eval_rst

.. doxygenfile:: lv_freetype.h
  :project: lvgl

```

Commit message:

feat(freetype):support bold and italic

docs/libs/freetype.md, after:

```eval_rst
.. include:: /header.rst 
:github_url: |github_link_base|/libs/freetype.md
```

# FreeType support
Interface to [FreeType](https://www.freetype.org/) to generate font bitmaps run time.

## Install FreeType
- Download Freetype from [here](https://sourceforge.net/projects/freetype/files/)
- `make`
- `sudo make install`

## Add FreeType to your project
- Add include path: `/usr/include/freetype2` (for GCC: `-I/usr/include/freetype2 -L/usr/local/lib`)
- Add library: `freetype` (for GCC: `-L/usr/local/lib -lfreetype`)

## Usage

Enable `LV_USE_FREETYPE` in `lv_conf.h`.

To cache the glyphs from the opened fonts set  `LV_FREETYPE_CACHE_SIZE >= 0` and then use the following macros for detailed configuration:
1. `LV_FREETYPE_CACHE_SIZE`:maximum memory(bytes) used to cache font bitmap, outline, character maps, etc. 0 means use the system default value, less than 0 means disable cache.Note: that this value does not account for managed FT_Face and FT_Size objects.
1. `LV_FREETYPE_CACHE_FT_FACES`:maximum number of opened FT_Face objects managed by this cache instance.0 means use the system default value.Only useful when LV_FREETYPE_CACHE_SIZE >= 0.
1. `LV_FREETYPE_CACHE_FT_SIZES`:maximum number of opened FT_Size objects managed by this cache instance. 0 means use the system default value.Only useful when LV_FREETYPE_CACHE_SIZE >= 0.

When you are sure that all the used fonts size will not be greater than 256, you can enable `LV_FREETYPE_SBIT_CACHE`, which is much more memory efficient for small bitmaps.

You can use `lv_ft_font_init()` to create FreeType fonts. It returns `true` to indicate success, at the same time, the `font` member of `lv_ft_info_t` will be filled with a  pointer to an lvgl font, and you can use it like any lvgl font.

Font style supports bold and italic, you can use the following macro to set:
1. `FT_FONT_STYLE_NORMAL`:default style.
1. `FT_FONT_STYLE_ITALIC`:Italic style
1. `FT_FONT_STYLE_BOLD`:bold style

They can be combined.eg:`FT_FONT_STYLE_BOLD | FT_FONT_STYLE_ITALIC`.

Note that, the FreeType extension doesn't use LVGL's file system. 
You can simply pass the path to the font as usual on your operating system or platform.

## Example
```eval_rst

.. include:: ../../examples/libs/freetype/index.rst

```


## Learn more
- FreeType [tutorial](https://www.freetype.org/freetype2/docs/tutorial/step1.html) 
- LVGL's [font interface](https://docs.lvgl.io/v7/en/html/overview/font.html#add-a-new-font-engine)


## API

```eval_rst

.. doxygenfile:: lv_freetype.h
  :project: lvgl

```
